---
layout: post
title: What goes up must come down
tags:
- Whistler
- Blackcomb
- snowboarding
- Skiing
- Adventures
- winter
- alpine
---
As winter slowly turns into spring it's time to end my Canadian adventure. For
those of you that don't know, I've been living in Whistler, BC for the last
four months. These have been some of the best four months of my life. I have
met so many great people, and hung out with some of my best friends while I've
been here.

Whistler is one of those places that everyone who lives here is on the same
wavelength, it's unbelievable how easy it is to get on with anyone when you
have so much in common. I guess that's why I enjoyed [university
snowsports](http://leedsmetsnowsports.co.uk) so much, as everyone had the same
approach to life, doing anything to get the next fix of snow! I really hope I
will see a lot of the people I have met over here again.

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_liuxbeoQTx1qeg2ip.jpg)

In terms of resorts, Whistler is one of the most complete resorts I have ever
been to, the village is great, plenty to do and see even if you don't ski or
snowboard. Well thought out, everything is within walking distance, plus great
transit links provided by BC Transit to the surrounding area. Topped off by
some great bars and restaurants, in no particular order here are my top five.

  * The Garibaldi Lift Company (The GLC)
  * Crystal Lounge
  * Dustys
  * Merlins
  * Earls

The mountains of Whistler and Blackcomb have some of the best terrain in North
America, probably the world, steep chutes, great glades, drops, expansive
alpine bowls. The only problem with the area, and the Coastal Mountains in
general is its proximity to the Pacific, this gives Whistler quite a mild
climate, it can rain in the village, and we only had a couple of bad days
where it rained all the way to the high alpine. But when it snows, does it
snow! The base as of the 30th of march is 3.5 meters, 3.5 meters is an
incredible amount of snow, total accumulations this season have been in excess
of 1,300Â cm, so as you can imagine we've had some epic powder days! In no
order here are my top five areas of both mountains that you must visit if you
come to Whistler.

  * Fraggle Rock (Skiers right off under Crystal Chair)
  * Harmony Horseshoes/Boomer Bowl/Gun Barrels
  * Flute Bowl (Far skiers right off Symphony + 25 minute hike)
  * Gemstone Bowls (Off Spankies Ladder)
  * Sun Bowl (Off Harmony ridge)
  * Almost anything off 7th Heaven (Reservoir Trees, Xhiggies Meadow)
  * Khybers/Million Dollar Ridge (Out of bounds, skiers left off upper peak to creek)

I could go on and on, but as you can see it's just endless, I have been here
four months and haven't even done all of the marked in bounds runs!

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_liuxc0n8IT1qeg2ip.jpg)

I'm going to miss Whistler, but I'm very excited to what the future will hold.
I have an interview for a great position in London, and an interview for a
position to volunteer for the London 2012 Olympics. But no doubt I'll be back
to Whistler next winter to see all of my friends out here and to tick off the
rest of the areas!

