---
layout: post
title: Nuclear power is still the best option for a non carbon future
tags:
- Nuclear power
- Fukushima
- Japan
- Media
- Non-Carbon
---
I'm as shocked as anyone else regarding the devastation in Japan, the scale of
the human tragedy is inconceivable, however the main story that seems to be
circling the news, especially in Canada, is that of this supposed "Meltdown"

Now first of all, Meltdown conjures up images of Chernobyl and the abandoned
town of Pripyat. To use the same term and toss it around so loosely regarding
the incident at Fukushima is reckless. They are nowhere near the same type of
incident, and to draw comparisons is tantamount to disinformation.

{% img center http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_li37fyobvI1qeg2ip.jpg %}

The main issue in my opinion is a general ignorance as to the workings of a
nuclear reactor, and nuclear physics in general. People are terrified of
things they don't fully understand, and nuclear power, unfortunately, is one
of these things.

It's not helped by the media supplying incredibly anti-nuclear commentary,
referring to everything as a disaster, or "meltdown". Nuclear power when
managed correctly is incredibly safe and clean, producing no carbon emissions
at all, the only waste is nuclear byproducts that can be stored underground to
decay into more stable elements.

For example, the media was reporting yesterday that that Fukushima I was
venting radioactive steam, however what the media failed to mention is that
the steam contains radionuclides with very short half-lives, so after they
were vented they rapidly decayed into stable, non-radioactive elements.

A half-life is not something the media concerns itself with it's content to
allow people to believe that this steam is lethal, even though the amount of
radiation measured during the venting was equivalent to that of a chest x-ray,
not to mention that those elements will rapidly decay and be sent out to sea,
never to be seen again!

The real danger comes from cracked containment vessels, as was shown with the
obsolete RBMK reactor types responsible for the Chernobyl disaster, however
the BWR reactors at Fukushima have 3 levels of containment, the zircaloy fuel
rod sheathes, the concrete core vessel, and then the outer containment vessel,
even if the fuel rods melt down, they will not breach the containment, and it
will not continue burning through the planet.

The future of nuclear power is a difficult one, its about overcoming peoples
innate fear of something they don't fully understand, coupled with the media
fanning the flames. However if we all want to keep using the same amount of
electricity, and we're committed to doing all we can to save the planet then
we need to start the process to ditch our carbon economy.

The first step comes with replacing our dirty fossil fuel burning power
stations with clean nuclear power. Renewables are great, but they don't
produce the amount of power required to run nations, nuclear fission power is
our best bet for staving off the effects of climate change in the immediate
short term, while we develop ways to bring nuclear fusion reactors up to
industrial scale. To put a halt on all nuclear power developments would be
incredibly short sighted. After all, we all need electricity, where else are
we gonna' get it from?

{% img center http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_li37l8YMHj1qeg2ip.jpg %}
